# Path Planning Project

The goal in this project is to build a path planner that is creates smooth, safe trajectories for the car to follow. The highway track has other vehicles, all going different speeds.

First, I focused on running smoothly along the road. The provided highway_map.csv file contains a list of all waypoints for the road. This waypoint is relative to the center of the road.

In order to safely navigate a car around a highway track a combination of using Frenet coordinate transformations along with spline interoplation was used. The helper function getXY, which takes Frenet (s, d) coordinates and converts the coordinates to (x, y) coordinates, has already been provided. There is a great and easy to setup and use spline tool for C++, contained in just a single header file.

I used three Frenet points with dynamic d based on the desired lane, and with s values spaced 30. The car's trajectory generated by this way is nice and smooth and didn't experience any max acceleration or jerk values. Also, I built a 50 point path to move the car, at that time I was able to smooth transition from cycle to cycle using the information from the previous path.

Through the operations described above, the car began to move smoothly along the highway. Now the important thing is that the car keeps running without colliding with other vehicles on the road. The sensor fusion data allowed the ego vehicle to see all the other traffic cars on the road. Any time the ego vehicle approaches a car in front of it that is moving slower than the speed limit, the ego vehicle should consider changing lanes. The car should only change lanes if such a change would be safe, and also if the lane change would help it move faster. The ego vehicle simply would change its lane and the spline interoplation would make the lane change smooth.

One way to implement a this lane change algorithm is by generating rough trajectories for each accessible next state and then finding the best. To find the best I used cost functions. I can then figure out how costly each rough trajectory is and then select the state with the lowest cost trajectory. I implemented the Behavior Planner by referring to the exercise of the behavior planning lesson. It will use prediction data to set the state of the ego vehicle to one of 5 values:

* "KL" - Keep Lane
* "LCL" / "LCR" - Lane Change Left / Right
* "PLCL" / "PLCR" - Prepare Lane Change Left / Right

Most of the code for this is written in the `vehicle.cpp` file. The cost functions used to find the best state are written in the `cost.h` file.